Network Zoo is designed to display, compare, classify a set of fMRI results to a set of network templates. The fMRI results are assumed to be group mean spatial maps and timeseries from an Independent Components Analysis (ICA), while the templates are an atlas of Intrinsic Connectivity Network (ICN). This process is aided by correlating respective ICA spatial maps and ICN template volumes. The GUI emphasizes flexible, customizable, user-defined classifications and display options.

The "Help" menu contains a step-by-step tutorial, as well as a demonstration dataset. 

In order to facilitate efficient classifications between potentially large numbers of networks and templates, all correlations can be calculated with the press of the "Run Correlation Analysis" button. Subsequently, likely matches identified automatically identified by the selecting "Find likely classifications" under the "Classifications" menu.

Network Zoo is written in python3, using Qt classes and display functions from "nilearn". Most dependencies are already included in default installations of Anaconda3, with the exception of nilearn. The latter is a popular package for neuroimaging using python, and is available for download through the Anaconda Cloud.

The name of the program is a reference to a conceptual challenge faced by particle physics. Before the Standard Model, as this field moved beyond familiar protons, neutrons, and electrons of physics, experimental results from particle colliders yielded a seemingly bewildering variety of unusual elemental particles. This was informally referred to as the "Particle Zoo." Similarly, currently in systems neuroscience, the major large-scale networks (ICNs) are now familiar, as well as historical parcellations such as Brodmann's Areas. In between and beyond these large and (relatively) small scales lies a plethora of largely unexplored meso-scale and micro-scale networks, the Network Zoo.

Through meticulous, careful, and detailed observations of fMRI results, novel networks within the brain and their unknown functions are awaiting discovery.


https://github.com/koreywylie/networkZoo


